# Directory content

## Data directory location
The data directory is the default location where the Bitcoin Core files are stored.

* The default data directory paths for Linux-based systems is: `$HOME/.bitcoin/`
* A custom data directory path can be specified via the `-datadir` option
* All content of the data directory, except for `bitcoin.conf` file, is chain-specific

This section provides an overview of the structure of Bitcoin Core directories. This may result useful if you wish to understand Bitcoin Core data structure und send a friend (or the future yourself) the entire blockchain, avoiding him a hefty download.

An overview of these table is in also available in the Bitcoin Core documentation [files.md](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/blob/master/doc/files.md).

Subdirectory       | File(s)               | Safely deleted | Description
-------------------|-----------------------|----------------|-------------
`./`               | `bitcoin.conf`        | No  | User-defined configuration settings for `bitcoind` or `bitcoin-qt`. File is not written to by the software and must be created manually. Path can be specified by `-conf` option. It may contain your IP or hidden service address, paths on your filesystem, and RPC credentials.
`./`               | `settings.json`       | No  | Read-write settings set through GUI or RPC interfaces, augmenting manual settings with a similar nature of `bitcoin.conf`. File is created automatically if read-write settings storage is not disabled with `-nosettings` option. Path can be specified with `-settings` option
`./`               | `anchors.dat`         | -   | Anchor IP address database, created on shutdown and deleted at startup. Anchors are last known outgoing block-relay-only peers that are tried to re-connect to on startup
`./`               | `peers.dat`           | Yes | It contains addresses and connection statistics of peers, but does not contain any personally identifiable data
`./`               | `banlist.json`        | -   | Stores the addresses/subnets of banned nodes
`./`               | `onion_v3_private_key`| Keep secret | Contains your hidden service key if you are running Bitcoin Core through a Tor connection
`./`               | `debug.log`           | Yes | Contains debug information and general logging generated by `bitcoind` or `bitcoin-qt`; can be specified by `-debuglogfile` option. It may contain IP addresses and transaction ID's
`./`               | `mempool.dat`         | -   | Dump of the mempool's transactions
`./`               | `fee_estimates.dat`   | Yes | Stores statistics used to estimate minimum transaction fees required for confirmation. It may contain information pertaining to your wallet
`./`               | `wallet.dat`          | Make backup | Contains addresses and transactions linked to them
`./`               | `db.log`              | Yes | May contain information pertaining to your wallet
`./`               | `.cookie`             | Keep secret  | Contains temporary RPC credentials in situations where you haven't specified an explicit username & password. 
`./`               | `.lock`               | Yes | Data directory lock file
`blocks/`          |                       | -  | Contain information pertaining only to the public blockchain. This directory ist cross-platform, i.e. it can be copied between different installation. It can be specified by `-blocksdir` option (except for `blocks/index/`)
`blocks/`          | `blk###.dat`          | -  | Actual Bitcoin blocks (dumped in network format, 128 MB per file)
`blocks/`          | `rev###.dat`          | -  | Block undo data (custom format)
`blocks/`          | `xor.dat`             | -  | Rolling XOR pattern for block and undo data files
`chainstate`       | 	LevelDB database     | -  | Blockchain state (a compact representation of all currently unspent transaction outputs (UTXOs) and metadata about the transactions they are from). It contains information pertaining only to the public blockchain. This directory ist cross-platform, i.e. it can be copied between different installation
`blocks/index`     | LevelDB database      | -  | Contain information pertaining only to the public blockchain. Block index; `-blocksdir` option does not affect this path
`indexes/txindex/` | LevelDB database      | -  | Transaction index; optional, used if `-txindex=1`
`indexes/blockfilter/basic/db/` | LevelDB database      | -  | Blockfilter index LevelDB database for the basic filtertype; optional, used if `-blockfilterindex=basic`
`wallets/`         |                       | -  | Contains wallets; can be specified by `-walletdir` option; if `wallets/` subdirectory does not exist, wallets reside in the data directory, i.e. the default location where the Bitcoin Core files are stored `$HOME/.bitcoin/`
`database/ folder` | `-`                   | -   | This should only exist when bitcoin-qt is currently running. It contains information (BDB state) relating to your wallet



  
# Transferability

Each node has a unique block database, and all of the files are highly connected. So if you copy just a few files from one installation's "blocks" or "chainstate" directories into another installation, this will almost certainly cause the second node to crash or get stuck at some random point in the future. 

If you want to copy a block database from one installation to another, you have to delete the old database and copy all of the files at once. Both nodes have to be shut down while copying.



#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
